in this lesson we're going to describe
the differences between the types of
cloud computing
if once again we go and check out the az
900 skills that are tested we're really
focusing on these five
skills that are assessed
define cloud computing
describe public cloud describe private
cloud describe hybrid cloud and compare
and contrast the three types of cloud
computing
so that's the focus for this particular
lesson
now i've talked a bit before about what
is the cloud
and the idea of the benefits of the
cloud that elasticity that agility the
high availability
but i focused on cloud azure the public
cloud
but if i really think about the cloud
there are particular properties that we
think about that define the cloud there
are key principles
now a key principle is around
pooling
resources
i.e i don't want islands i don't want
hey this group of servers and this
storage is for this particular group of
people then another little island over
here and another one over there it's
very inefficient
they might have busy times that are
different from each other and they
always have a spare amount of capacity
so if i have hundreds of islands
that spare capacity really is quite high
there's a lot of wasted space and it
limits any particular island from
kind of peaks
if i pull all the resources together
instead of having a hundred islands i
just bring all of that resource together
now i have this massive amount of
potential capacity and if one business
group is having a quiet time another one
can really leverage that so that pooling
of resource gives us this fantastic
elasticity that workflows can take
advantage of
then there's a whole idea of
self-service
i don't want
to have to go to some administrator
and say hey please go and create me a
virtual machine
i want the idea of self-service now
self-service still needs controls so
often we think about certain maybe
quotas
i give them a cloud of a certain size to
control hey how much resource are they
consuming
there may be the idea of certain
policies
or standards or templates that they can
actually leverage
but the whole point here is is this on
demand they go and provision things as
they need to
there are going to be things like
showback
i can show them what they're using maybe
it's also chargeback
is another important aspect
there's also things like separating of
networking there's a whole bunch of
different aspects but we have some of
these key kind of tenants i don't want
islands i want to pour the resources
that gives me this great agility between
everyone
so if we have this idea of the cloud and
some of those key tenants well then i
can offer that from different places
now the obvious one we think about when
i think about what is a cloud
absolutely
i think about the public cloud
eg
azure
azure is an example of a public cloud
this is typically the most complete
offering
again when we talk about the idea of a
cloud
there's a certain set of capabilities we
expect now a lot of those capabilities
are actually exposed via the management
infrastructure that sits around it that
exposes these concept of
clouds of quotas of self-service of
showback of chargeback of offering
different types of service and if i
think about a public cloud offering
that's really going to have the most
complete set of capabilities to meet all
of those definitions of the cloud to
have true software defined networking to
have true rich policy capabilities and
show back and charge back and all of
those different role-based access
control elements we would expect
also
for me as a company
well this is going to be true opex
i really am just paying for what i use
remember also this is primarily accessed
over the internet
now as we talked about in previous
lesson
i can
from my on premises have like a
site-to-site vpn
i'd have a point-to-site vpn for a
particular user i can use things like
express route for a private actual
network connection not even encrypting a
tunnel over the internet
but that's a very common pattern we
think about a public cloud we're
offering it over the internet and with
the public cloud we really think about
it is just limitless
we think about many regions
i.e i can provision services
in a lot of different places
and many regions
there are many services that i can pick
from
i'm not limited to vms or a container
i can have artificial intelligence
services i can have managed postgres or
my sequel i have bought in the cloud
cosmos db databases
huge range of capability
storage from hard disk drive based to
nvme
super low latency capabilities
i have the ability to have services
offered out to the internet offered
privately
geographically distributed
just a fantastic set of capabilities
available to me and again there's this
very strong idea of governance policies
role-based access control budgets to
control actually what i can spend
but i can also have private cloud
absolutely on premises
i have the idea of a private cloud
i think about well i had those physical
servers so i can think okay well we had
those
physical boxes
that were running some kind of
hypervisor
a key definition here about that private
cloud would then be the management
infrastructure you put on top of it
there's going to be a certain management
set of software
that i leverage that would expose to the
end user portal that would enable those
clouds of different quotas and different
types of offering to actually be
leveraged
so i can still create this idea of a
certain set of service i want to offer
to different groups of the business
so as a business unit person i'll see
certain services offered to me i'll have
a certain amount a quota
but here's the thing although as a
particular business unit
i might see a particular set of surveys
and as a business unit maybe i pay for
what i use as a company
this is capex
i'm buying
those servers
i have to go pre-buy i have to buy the
licenses i have to purchase all of those
things and once again
i have a certain fixed set of services
i'm going to offer for a duration of
years
but
i am running my own servers so i have
full flexibility within the capabilities
of whatever management stack i'm running
that is providing that private cloud set
of capabilities
now one of the things we will see later
on is azure for example
but they actually have the ability to
extend and enable services on premises
you'll hear things
for example about azure stack
which has different types an azure arc
which brings azure management
capabilities from azure so a single pane
of glass it can actually bring different
types of azure services built on top of
kubernetes could be app services could
be data services could be ai services
so i actually get a consistent not only
management infrastructure
but also consistent services between the
public and the private cloud
which brings us to the idea of hybrid
and hybrid really just means we're using
both
we're using a private cloud and we're
using a public cloud often seamlessly
i might think about i'm offering a
certain service from my on-premises
private cloud but in busy times
i'm actually going to burst up into the
public cloud i might have some global
load balancer to distribute my workload
so it can normally point to on premises
but in these busy times or if there's a
failure
well now i go and spin things up in the
public cloud that consumption base so
when you pay for it when i need it so i
go and burst out into the public cloud
maybe some services i might have an
anchor it's all about anchors maybe i've
got some mainframe workload i can't move
to the cloud so some things i still need
to run on premises
but other services i can move out in the
cloud so i'll have a combination of them
but we think about i don't want to use
completely different tooling
this is where i think oh okay things
like azure arc i can have the azure
management
the resource-based access control the
policies
the whole governance model and then
bring the services as well to my
on-premises so
as a developer for example i don't care
i work a certain way
and it can really run anywhere i want
that's the best type of hybrid cloud
where i as a user of the service do not
care if it's running in my private cloud
or it's running in the public cloud
so i get a lot of flexibility here
i might have
data requirements regulatory
requirements that say you're not allowed
to run in the cloud public cloud now
that's a lot less common today but it
may still happen or then i want to run a
private cloud but i still want the
features that i'm used to
it might be i need to operate in a
country where maybe there's not an azure
region
i can use something like azure stack
i just like hub i just like edge i just
like hci different maybe it's complete
rack with azure stack hub maybe it's
single boxes with azure stack edge maybe
it's my own infrastructure running a
special azure brand of the hypervisor
and software defined networking and
storage and other administrative
controls with azure stack hci
so i can run those
where i need to run it on premises but
other times i'll go and use the public
cloud
so those are really the different types
of cloud a lot of companies want that
consistent model consistent policy
consistent everything else
and i can get that through services like
azure and azure stack and azure arc
where
probably my primary scenario will be
running things in the public cloud but
there might be times maybe because of
the latency there's still a certain
distance between maybe an on-premise
location in the clouds data centers i
want to run it on-premise maybe it's
artificial intelligence scanning a work
line looking for safety issues or
sensors i need to react super quick i
want to run those workloads at the edge
very close
hey i'll run it in my private cloud
so i can
run things using my infrastructure
i can run things in the public cloud i
can use that hybrid approach as well so
those are really the three types of
cloud computing
we're going to see our big focus here
obviously is going to be the public
cloud and using azure